>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, MARCH 21: THE
UNITED STATES AND IRAN REPORT
NEW MOMENTUM IN NEGOTIATIONS TO
STRIKE A NUCLEAR DEAL; PROGRESS
IN THE BATTLE AGAINST
ALZHEIMER'S; AND IN OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, TAKING ON
ISIS-- AN AMERICAN ARMY VETERAN
RETURNS TO IRAQ TO "DEFEND
CHRISTIANITY."
>> YOU CAN PUSH CHRISTIANS BACK
SO FAR, BUT, WHEN WE DO PICK UP
THE SWORD, YOU KNOW, WE FIGHT
BACK.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS OF
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THERE ARE NEW SIGNS OF PROGRESS
IN NUCLEAR NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN
THE WORLD'S MAJOR POWERS AND
IRAN.
OFFICIALS FROM BOTH SIDES SAID
THE LATEST ROUND OF TALKS IN
SWITZERLAND HAD LEFT THE TWO
SIDES CLOSER TO A DEAL.
>> WE HAVE NOT YET REACHED THE
FINISH LINE, BUT MAKE NO
MISTAKE-- WE HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TRY TO GET THIS
RIGHT.
WE HAVE MADE GENUINE PROGRESS,
AND WE HAVE ALL LIVED UP TO OUR
OBLIGATIONS.
WE HAVE WORKED LONG AND HARD TO
ACHIEVE A COMPREHENSIVE
AGREEMENT THAT RESOLVES
INTERNATIONAL CONCERNS ABOUT
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT ASSESSMENT
WAS ECHOED BY IRANIAN PRESIDENT
HASSAN ROUHANI.
>> (translated): IN THIS ROUND
OF TALKS, SHARED POINTS OF VIEW
EMERGED IN SOME OF THE AREAS
WHERE THERE HAD BEEN A
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION, WHICH CAN
BE A FOUNDATION FOR A FINAL
AGREEMENT.
DIFFERENCES ON SOME OF THE
ISSUES STILL REMAIN THAT COULD
HAVE BEEN RESOLVED, BUT MORE
TIME IS NEEDED.
>> Sreenivasan: A DAY AFTER
SUICIDE BOMBERS KILLED AT LEAST
137 WORSHIPPERS IN YEMEN, THE
UNITED STATES IS REPORTEDLY
REMOVING THE LAST OF ITS TROOPS
OUT OF THAT COUNTRY.
YEMENI OFFICIALS SAY THE
AMERICANS EVACUATED AN AIR BASE
FOLLOWING THE CAPTURE OF A
NEARBY CITY BY AL QAEDA
FIGHTERS.
THE U.S. CLOSED ITS EMBASSY IN
THE CAPITAL CITY OF SANAA LAST
MONTH.
AUTHORITIES IN TUNISIA TODAY
ARRESTED 20 SUSPECTED MILITANTS
FOR THEIR ALLEGED ROLE IN THE
MUSEUM ATTACK EARLIER THIS WEEK
THAT LEFT NEARLY TWO DOZEN
TOURISTS DEAD.
IN TUNIS TODAY, THE VICTIMS WERE
REMEMBERED DURING A MASS
ATTENDED BY GOVERNMENT
MINISTERS.
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS THE TWO
GUNMEN KILLED DURING THE
INCIDENT HAD TRAINED AT JIHADI
CAMPS IN NEIGHBORING LIBYA.
A FEDERAL JUDGE HAS ORDERED THE
PENTAGON TO RELEASE PHOTOGRAPHS
THAT SHOW THE ABUSE OF DETAINEES
IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN.
SOME OF THE IMAGES, TAKEN BY
AMERICAN SERVICE PERSONNEL,
REPORTEDLY SHOW SOLDIERS
POINTING GUNS AT THE HEADS OF
HOODED AND HANDCUFFED DETAINEES.
THE GOVERNMENT SAYS RELEASING
THE PHOTOS, TAKEN ABOUT A DECADE
AGO, WILL INCITE ATTACKS AGAINST
AMERICAN SERVICEMEN OVERSEAS.
THE RULING YESTERDAY BY DISTRICT
JUDGE ALVIN HELLERSTEIN GIVES
THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT TWO
MONTHS TO APPEAL.
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS FROM THE
GROUP BOKO HARAM ARE SAID TO BE
BEHIND AN ATROCITY COMMITTED IN
NIGERIA.
A MASS GRAVE WITH AT LEAST 70
DECOMPOSED BODIES WAS DISCOVERED
NEAR A TOWN RECENTLY TAKEN BACK
FROM THE GROUP.
AUTHORITIES SAID MANY OF THE
VICTIMS HAD THEIR THROATS SLIT.
A FEDERAL JUDGE HAS DECLARED
WISCONSIN'S ABORTION LAW
UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
THE LAW, CHALLENGED BY PLANNED
PARENTHOOD, HAD REQUIRED DOCTORS
PERFORMING ABORTIONS TO HAVE
ADMITTING PRIVILEGES AT A NEARBY
HOSPITAL.
SUPPORTERS OF THE LAW, INCLUDING
GOVERNOR SCOTT WALKER, SAID THE
LAW WOULD HELP GUARANTEE THE
SAFETY OF WOMEN RECEIVING
ABORTIONS.
OPPONENTS SAID IT WAS REALLY
MEANT TO LIMIT ACCESS TO
ABORTIONS BY MAKING WOMEN TRAVEL
FURTHER, ESPECIALLY FROM RURAL
AREAS.
A NEW STUDY DOCUMENTS THE
CONTINUING DECLINE OF THE
NATION'S MIDDLE CLASS.
ACCORDING TO PEW, EVERY SINGLE
STATE SAW ITS PERCENTAGE OF
MIDDLE CLASS RESIDENTS SHRINK
BETWEEN 2000 AND 2013.
THE DARKER THE BLUE, THE STEEPER
THE DECLINE.
STATES LIKE OHIO, WISCONSIN AND
GEORGIA HAD THE STEEPEST
DECLINES, ALL AROUND 5%; IDAHO,
WYOMING, HAWAII AND ALASKA HAD
THE SMALLEST DROPS.
THIS WEEKEND MARKS THE 70th
ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE OF IWO
JIMA, ONE OF THE MOST BRUTAL AND
INFAMOUS BATTLES OF WORLD WAR
II.
MORE THAN 30 U.S. VETERANS, MANY
IN THEIR EARLY 90s, ATTENDED A
CEREMONY ON THE TINY JAPANESE
ISLAND TO COMMEMORATE THE U.S.
VICTORY OVER JAPANESE FORCES IN
1945.
7,000 MARINES DIED AND MORE THAN
20,000 WERE WOUNDED SECURING THE
ISLAND.
THE VETERANS ALSO VISITED THE
HILLTOP WHERE THE ICONIC PHOTO
WAS TAKEN OF THE MARINES RAISING
THE U.S. FLAG.
AND FINALLY, SOME ANCIENT
HISTORY.
PALEONTOLOGISTS FROM NORTH
CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY HAVE
DISCOVERED REMAINS OF WHAT
THEY'VE DUBBED THE "CAROLINA
BUTCHER," AN ANCESTOR OF TODAY'S
CROCODILE.
THE "BUTCHER" HAD SHARP TEETH,
WAS AT LEAST NINE FEET TALL AND
ACTUALLY WALKED ON ITS HIND
LEGS.
SCIENTISTS BELIEVE THE BEASTS
DIED OUT BECAUSE THEY COULD NOT
ULTIMATELY COMPETE WITH EVEN
LARGER DINOSAURS, WHICH PREYED
ON THEM.
IN CASE YOU'RE WONDERING, THE
CAROLINA BUTCHER MAY HAVE WALKED
THE EARTH SOME 230 MILLION YEARS
AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: JUST YESTERDAY
CAME WORD ABOUT WHAT COULD BE A
BIG STEP FORWARD IN THE BATTLE
AGAINST ALZHEIMER'S, A NEW DRUG
THAT DURING TESTS SHARPLY SLOWED
THE COGNITIVE DECLINE OF PEOPLE
WITH THE DEBILITATING DISEASE.
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED NOW BY
DR. SAMUEL GANDY.
HE IS A NEUROLOGIST AND
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE RESEARCH
CENTER AT MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL
HERE IN NEW YORK CITY.
SO, I GUESS, FIRST, WHAT IS THE
DRUG, AND WHAT DOES IT DO?
>> SO, THE DRUG IS AIMED AT
MATERIAL THAT BUILDS UP IN THE
BRAIN DURING ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE.
THIS IS A NORMAL PROTEIN, A
NORMAL SUBSTANCE OF THE BRAIN
WHICH CHANGES ITS SHAPE AND
CLUMPS.
AND THIS CLASS OF DISEASES
CALLED AMYLOID DISEASES, OR
AMYLOIDOSIS, ARE NOTORIOUSLY
DIFFICULT TO TREAT.
AND THE IDEA WITH THIS DRUG IS
TO HELP THE BRAIN CLEAR THOSE
CLUMPS AWAY, HELPS TO HARNESS
THE IMMUNE SYSTEM TO CLEAR THOSE
CLUMPS AWAY.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS JUST
TARGETED AT ALZHEIMER'S, OR ARE
THERE ANY FORMS OF DEMENTIA
THAT COULD ALSO BENEFIT FROM A
DRUG LIKE THIS?
>> IN ANY DISEASE, IN ANY
DEMENTIA IN WHICH THIS
PARTICULAR PROTEIN BUILDS UP,
THIS MEDICINE COULD BE
EFFECTIVE.
FOR EXAMPLE, THERE ARE NOT ONLY
JUST ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE, BUT
WHAT WE CALL MIXED DEMENTIAS IN
WHICH ALZHEIMER'S AND, SAY,
DEMENTIA DUE TO MULTIPLE STROKES
CAN COEXIST.
IN THAT CASE, THE COMPONENT DUE
TO ALZHEIMER'S WILL STILL BE
RESPONSIVE TO THIS DRUG.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, GIVEN THAT
THERE HAVE BEEN OTHER ATTEMPTS
AT THIS, HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS
SORT OF ADVANCEMENT?
>> WELL, THIS IS THE FIRST DRUG
OF ANY CLASS AIMED AT AMYLOID
THAT'S SHOWN ANY CONVINCING
SIGNAL.
SO, NOT ONLY HAVE THERE BEEN
ANTIBODY TRIALS, BUT ALSO THERE
ARE SMALL MOLECULES, PILLS, THAT
ARE BEING TESTED THAT ARE AIMED
AT THE ENZYMES THAT MAKE
AMYLOID, FOR EXAMPLE.
NONE OF THOSE HAVE SUCCEEDED SO
FAR.
SO, IN TERMS OF WHAT WE CALL THE
AMYLOID HYPOTHESIS OF
ALZHEIMER'S-- THAT AMYLOID IS
KEY TO THE CAUSE OF THE
DISEASE-- THIS IS REALLY
IMPORTANT IN TERMS OF FOCUSING
OR SORT OF CONFIRMING THAT THAT
IS A VALID TARGET.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, WHY IS THIS
PARTICULAR DRUG OR THIS
PARTICULAR TYPE OF THERAPY
DIFFERENT?
>> THIS IS A BIOLOGICAL.
IT'S A PROTEIN, WHAT'S CALLED A
MONOCLONAL ANTIBODY, AND IT'S
DIRECTED SPECIFICALLY AT THIS
MOLECULE THAT BUILDS UP.
AND WE'VE RARELY BEEN SUCCESSFUL
IN THIS SORT OF MEDICATION, IN
THIS SORT OF DISEASE.
THERE'S ONE EXAMPLE OF ANOTHER
AMYLOID THAT'S TREATABLE.
THIS IS THE SECOND EXAMPLE WHERE
WE SEEM TO HAVE A LEAD ON A
STRATEGY THAT LOOKS TO BE
SUCCESSFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, BIOGEN, THE
COMPANY THAT MADE THIS, SAW A
HUGE BUMP IN THEIR STOCK.
OBVIOUSLY, INVESTORS SEEM VERY
CONFIDENT, BUT THIS IS FAR OFF
FROM ACTUALLY GETTING TO MARKET,
RIGHT?
>> IT IS.
THIS IS A SMALL TRIAL.
IF YOU DIVIDE IT UP BETWEEN...
THERE'S ONLY ABOUT 150, 160
SUBJECTS TOTAL.
THEY WERE IN SIX DIFFERENT
GROUPS.
SO, IN EACH GROUP, THERE WERE
ONLY ABOUT TWO DOZEN PATIENTS.
SO, THE F.D.A. USUALLY REQUIRES
AT LEAST TWO MUCH LARGER TRIALS,
AND SO THOSE WOULD HAVE TO NOW
BE... UNDER AT LEAST TYPICAL
POLICY, THOSE WOULD BE REQUIRED
BEFORE IT WOULD BE APPROVED.
NOW, THE F.D.A. HAS GIVEN SOME
SIGNALS THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO
FAST-TRACK THIS SORT OF THING,
SO THEY COULD CHANGE THOSE
RULES.
BUT ONE WOULD GUESS THAT IF THEY
RAN THE TWO TRIALS IN PARALLEL,
PERHAPS IT WOULD BE READY IN
THREE, FOUR YEARS.
BUT IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE BEING
ANY FASTER THAN THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: AND, YOU KNOW,
THERE'S ALWAYS SIDE EFFECTS TO
DRUGS.
I MEAN, ARE THERE ANY KNOWN SIDE
EFFECTS SO FAR?
>> THERE ARE.
AND THIS PARTICULAR SIDE EFFECT
IS ONE THAT OCCURS WITH A NUMBER
OF THESE BIOLOGICALS.
THERE ARE ANTIBODIES LIKE THIS
YOU CAN USE FOR CANCER, FOR
EXAMPLE.
AND THIS IS A SWELLING OF THE
BRAIN, OR AT LEAST A CHANGE IN
THE WATER CONTENT OF THE BRAIN.
IT'S OFTEN THOSE SYMPTOMS, AND
USUALLY IF YOU SORT OF DECREASE
THE DOSE OF THE DRUG OR SPACE
OUT THE ADMINISTRATION, IT WILL
RESOLVE SPONTANEOUSLY.
BUT IT'S FAIRLY IMPORTANT TO
BE... TO SURVEY FOR IT.
IT'S READILY DETECTABLE ON
M.R.I. BEFORE THERE ARE ANY
SYMPTOMS, SO I THINK IT WOULD BE
MANAGEABLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, THIS IS A
CATEGORY OF BIOLOGICAL DRUGS
THAT YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT, BUT
ARE THERE OTHER DRUGS?
I MEAN, ALZHEIMER'S IS SO
ENORMOUS IN THIS COUNTRY AND
ELSEWHERE; ARE THERE OTHER DRUGS
THAT ARE FOLLOWING THIS KIND OF
LEAD OR EVEN IN THE CLINICAL
TRIALS PROCESS?
>> WELL, IN ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE?
YES.
SO, THIS PARTICULAR STRATEGY HAS
BEEN ATTEMPTED BEFORE AND HAS
FAILED.
THERE WAS A DRUG BY PFIZER, A
DRUG FROM LILLY WHICH IS STILL
BEING EVALUATED, BUT THE PFIZER
DRUG WAS ABANDONED.
AND IT'S NOT QUITE CLEAR WHY THE
BIOGEN TRIAL SUCCEEDED WHERE
THESE OTHERS HAVE FAILED.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF
POSSIBILITIES.
THE FIRST IS THAT THESE
BIOLOGICALS CAN BE DIFFERENT.
ONE ANTIBODY MADE BY ONE COMPANY
MAY BE SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT FROM
ANOTHER IN WAYS THAT WE MAY
NEVER EVEN KNOW.
SO, IT'S POSSIBLE THAT THE
BIOGEN ANTIBODY IS JUST SUPERIOR
TO THE OTHERS.
IT'S ALSO POSSIBLE THE BIOGEN
TRIAL DESIGN WAS THE SECRET
BECAUSE THEY SCREENED FOR PEOPLE
WHO HAD... THEY USED AMYLOID
BRAIN SCANS TO SELECT THE
SUBJECTS.
SO, THEY KNEW THAT THE PEOPLE
GOING IN HAD AMYLOID IN THEIR
BRAIN.
IN PREVIOUS TRIALS, THOSE FOLKS
WITH AMYLOID-NEGATIVE, OR WITH
NEGATIVE AMYLOID SCANS, WERE
INCLUDED.
SO, IF THEY WERE NOT RESPONSIVE
TO THE MEDICATION, THEY WOULD
HAVE DILUTED OUT THE EFFECT.
AND SO, IT'S POSSIBLE THAT IF
THESE OTHER DRUGS ARE TESTED
WITH THE SAME DESIGN, THEY MIGHT
PROVE SUCCESSFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
SAMUEL GANDY, ALZHEIMER'S
RESEARCHER AT MOUNT SINAI
HOSPITAL, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, OUR ORIGINAL
IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND THE
NATION AND AROUND THE WORLD.
TONIGHT, THE BATTLE TO DEFEAT
ISIS.
YOU'VE NO DOUBT SEEN REPORTS
FROM THE PAST FEW MONTHS ABOUT
EFFORTS TO STOP YOUNG WESTERNERS
TRAVELING FROM THE UNITED STATES
AND EUROPE TO FIGHT ALONGSIDE
THE EXTREMISTS.
WHAT YOU MIGHT NOT KNOW IS THAT
SOME WESTERNERS ARE ALSO SIGNING
UP TO FIGHT AGAINST ISIS,
INCLUDING SOME MOTIVATED TO STOP
THE RADICAL ISLAMIC GROUP'S
ATTACKS ON CHRISTIANITY IN THAT
PART OF THE WORLD.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN HIMEL TRAVELED TO
NORTHERN IRAQ RECENTLY, WHERE HE
MET AN AMERICAN VETERAN
DETERMINED TO PROTECT
CHRISTIANITY.
>> Reporter: NEARLY NINE YEARS
AFTER BRETT FIRST SAW COMBAT
HERE, THIS DETROIT NATIVE
RETURNED TO IRAQ TO DEFEND THE
CHRISTIAN FAITH HE HOLDS SO
DEAR.
>> HELLO.
>> WHAT'S UP, BUDDY?
THERE ARE A LOT OF KIDS HERE
NOW.
IT'S AWESOME.
>> Reporter: BRETT ASKED US NOT
TO USE HIS LAST NAME FOR
SECURITY REASONS.
IN 2006, HE SERVED IN THE U.S.
ARMY'S 14th MOUNTAIN DIVISION
FOR 15 MONTHS IN IRAQ.
BRETT WAS WOUNDED BY A ROADSIDE
BOMB AND IS A VETERAN ON
DISABILITY.
WHY COME BACK AFTER ALL THE TIME
YOU SERVED HERE AND WHAT YOU'VE
SEEN?
ISN'T IT TOO MUCH?
>> I'VE SEEN ENOUGH COMBAT TO
LAST ME A LIFETIME.
I'M TRYING TO DO THIS ON
HUMANITARIAN GROUNDS, TRYING TO
HELP OUT... TO BRING THE
WORLD VIEW HERE, TRYING TO HELP
LIBERATE CITIES, TRYING TO HELP
PROTECT CITIES.
AND IT'S JUST A DIFFERENT
MISSION THIS TIME.
IT IS.
>> Reporter: PERHAPS HIS
GREATEST GOAL IS TO PROTECT
CHRISTIANITY IN IRAQ.
BRETT IS A RELIGIOUS CATHOLIC.
LAST AUGUST, THE 28-YEAR-OLD
INTERRUPTED HIS STUDIES AND
TRAVELED TO NORTHERN IRAQ, WHERE
HE JOINED THE ASSYRIAN CHRISTIAN
MILITIA DYVEKH NAWSHA, WHICH
MEANS "SELF-SACRIFICE" IN
ARAMAIC.
>> I MISS YOU.
>> Reporter: IT'S A PRIVATELY
FUNDED GROUP NUMBERING IN THE
HUNDREDS UNDER THE COMMAND OF
THE KURDISH PESHMERGA THAT IS
FIGHTING ISIS IN NORTHERN IRAQ
AND EASTERN SYRIA.
THE U.S. MILITARY IS PROVIDING
SUPPORT FOR THE PESHMERGA.
THERE ARE SEVERAL AMERICAN,
BRITISH AND CANADIAN CHRISTIAN
VOLUNTEERS ALSO SERVING, MOST
WITH IRAQI BATTLEFIELD
EXPERIENCE.
THEY RECEIVE NO PAY BUT ARE
PROVIDED WITH FREE ROOM AND
BOARD BY THE ASSYRIAN CHRISTIAN
MILITIA.
>> TO ME, IT MEANS EVERYTHING.
I MEAN, I COME FROM A COUNTRY
WHERE MOST PEOPLE TAKE FOR
GRANTED THEIR FREEDOMS.
THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND WHAT
PERSECUTION IS.
IN THIS PART OF THE WORLD, TO BE
ABLE TO LIVE FREE AND PRACTICE
YOUR FAITH WITHOUT BEING KILLED
IS HUGE.
>> Reporter: WE CAUGHT UP WITH
BRETT IN ALQOSH, A CHRISTIAN
TOWN JUST 30 MILES FROM THE ISIS
STRONGHOLD IN IRAQ-- MOSUL.
ALQOSH WAS OVERRUN LAST SUMMER
BY ISIS FIGHTERS AND THEN
RECAPTURED WITH THE HELP OF
KURDISH AND CHRISTIAN MILITIAS
THIS PAST AUGUST.
SKIRMISHES WITH ISIS PERSIST
NEARBY.
>> ISIS LIKES TO PITCH ATTACKS.
THEY'RE COWARDS.
THEY LIKE TO DO IT IN LOW
VISIBILITY, LOW MOONLIGHT, RAIN,
FOG, STUFF LIKE THAT.
>> I MEAN, WE LOVE AMERICA TOO
MUCH.
>> AMERICA LOVES... WE LOVE YOU
GUYS, WE LOVE
THIS HOUSE, AND WE LOVE THAT SHE
STAYED HERE.
>> THIS HOUSE IS LIKE CHURCH.
>> IT IS.
HONESTLY, IT IS, IT IS.
>> Reporter: BASA MUSAFAR WAS
THE ONLY CHRISTIAN TO STAY AND
SURVIVE IN ALQOSH WHEN ISIS TOOK
THE TOWN.
SHE HAS TRANSFORMED HER HOUSE
INTO A CHRISTIAN SHRINE
MEMORIALIZING THE FALLEN.
JUST AS ST. GEORGE KILLED THE
SERPENT, THE CHRISTIAN MILITIAS
ARE DEPICTED CRUSHING THE ISIS
SNAKE.
DO YOU THINK THIS IS A RELIGIOUS
WAR?
>> I THINK IT'S BECOME A
RELIGIOUS WAR, YES, BECAUSE THE
ATROCITIES THEY ARE COMMITTING
ARE BASED ON THEIR BELIEFS.
AND THE FACT THAT, YOU KNOW, YOU
CAN PUSH CHRISTIANS BACK SO FAR,
BUT WHEN WE DO PICK UP THE
SWORD, WE FIGHT BACK.
AND WE'RE DOING SO FOR OUR
FAITH, WE'RE DOING SO FOR OUR
BELIEFS.
>> Reporter: BUT FOR THE MOMENT,
AT LEAST, LIFE IN ALQOSH HAS
RETURNED TO SOMETHING LIKE
NORMAL.
WHAT DOES THIS TOWN MEAN FOR
YOU?
>> THIS TOWN SIGNIFIES A
VICTORY.
I MEAN, AT ONE POINT, THIS TOWN
WAS COMPLETELY ABANDONED EXCEPT
FOR ONE PERSON, SOMETIMES TWO.
BUT NOW, I MEAN, THE CHURCH
BELLS RING AGAIN HERE; PEOPLE GO
ABOUT THEIR BUSINESS; PEOPLE
LIVE HERE.
THAT'S THE BIGGEST THING.
AS YOU CAN SEE, SHOPS ARE OPEN,
BUSINESS IS BACK, PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO SCHOOL.
THIS SIGNIFIES ONE OF THE FEW
VICTORIES THAT WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
I MEAN, WHAT'S TERRORISM?
TERRORISM IS A DISRUPTION OF
YOUR DAILY LIFE.
AND I KNOW THESE PEOPLE ARE
RESILIENT.
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO SAY, "HEY,
LOOK, WE KNOW YOU'RE IN THE
AREA, BUT WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET
YOU DESTROY OUR LIVES.
YOU KNOW, WE WILL STAY HERE AND
DIE FOR WHAT WE BELIEVE IN, BUT
WE ARE GOING TO CONTINUE TO GO
ON AND OPERATE OUR DAILY LIFE."
SO, IT'S A SUCCESS.
>> Reporter: ASSYRIAN
CHRISTIANITY HAS SURVIVED HERE
FOR NEARLY 2,000 YEARS DESPITE
NUMEROUS ATTEMPTS TO DESTROY ITS
FOLLOWERS.
ESTABLISHED IN SYRIA AND IRAQ,
ASSYRIAN CHRISTIANITY PREDATES
THE RISE OF ISLAM BY AT LEAST
400 YEARS.
ISIS IS THE LATEST SERIOUS
ATTEMPT TO DESTROY ASSYRIAN
CHRISTIANS IN THE REGION.
ISIS CALLS CHRISTIANS CRUSADERS.
HOW DO YOU FEEL WHEN THEY SAY
YOU'RE A CRUSADER?
>> WHO WAS HERE BEFORE ISLAM?
THE CHRISTIANS.
THE ASSYRIAN CHRISTIAN
POPULATION IS INDIGENOUS TO THIS
LAND, SO, TO ME, IT JUST SHOWS
HOW IGNORANT THEY TRULY ARE AND
HOW UNEDUCATED THEY ARE, TOO.
>> Reporter: DR. YIFAT
MONNICKENDAM IS AN EXPERT ON
ASSYRIAN CHRISTIANITY, A
LECTURER AT HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF
JERUSALEM.
>> SYRIAN CHRISTIANS HAVE BEEN
HERE SINCE CHRISTIANITY STARTED
IN THE SECOND CENTURY, OR THE
FOURTH CENTURY.
IT DOESN'T MATTER.
WAY BEFORE ISLAM AND WAY, WAY
BEFORE THE CRUSADERS.
THE CRUSADERS ARRIVED IN THE
11th CENTURY AND REMAINED HERE
FOR 200 YEARS, APPROXIMATELY.
THE OTHER CHRISTIAN GROUPS IN
THE AREA WERE HERE BEFORE AND
REMAINED EVEN AFTER THE
CRUSADERS LEFT.
>> Reporter: THOUGH CHRISTIANS
ONCE AGAIN ARE WORSHIPPING
FREELY IN ALQOSH, THEY REMAIN
UNDER ATTACK IN MUCH OF IRAQ AND
SYRIA AND THROUGHOUT PARTS OF
THE MIDDLE EAST.
21 EGYPTIAN COPTIC CHRISTIANS
RECENTLY WERE BEHEADED BY ISIS
FIGHTERS IN LIBYA, AND ISIS HAS
MADE IT A POINT TO PUBLICIZE ITS
DESTRUCTION OF ANCIENT AND
PRECIOUS CHRISTIAN ARTIFACTS IN
IRAQ.
HUNDREDS OF CHRISTIANS HAVE BEEN
TAKEN HOSTAGE, AN UNTOLD NUMBER
HAVE BEEN KILLED AND HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF OTHERS HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED, AND YET THE
CHRISTIANS WE MET INSIST THEY
WILL NEVER SURRENDER TO ISIS.
>> (translated): WE WILL
OVERCOME THEM.
WE WILL NEVER LEAVE.
THEY ARE EVIL.
THEY ARE MURDERERS.
THEY WILL NOT DEFEAT US.
WE WILL DEFEAT THEM.
>> Reporter: WHILE THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT HAS YET TO ISSUE A
RULING ABOUT THE LEGALITY OF
VOLUNTEERING FOR THESE MILITIAS,
BRETT SAYS THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY, INCLUDING CHRISTIANS
IN THE UNITED STATES, NEED TO DO
MUCH MORE TO DEFEND PEOPLE HE
DESCRIBES AS "THEIR BROTHERS AND
SISTERS IN CHRIST," PEOPLE NOW
UNDER ATTACK HERE.
WHAT'S THE MESSAGE THAT YOU ARE
TRYING TO TAKE TO THE WORLD?
>> THEY NEED TO OPEN THEIR EARS.
PEOPLE ARE CRYING.
THEY NEED TO OPEN THEIR EYES.
YOU KNOW, THEY NEED TO HELP.
WE NEED FUNDS, WE NEED SUPPORT.
THEY DON'T JUST WANT TO KICK US
OUT; THEY WANT TO KILL US, AND
THEY ARE KILLING US.
JESUS SAID, "BEFORE THEY HATED
YOU, THEY HATED ME.
BEFORE THEY PERSECUTED YOU, THEY
PERSECUTED ME.
AND BEFORE THEY KILL YOU,
THEY'VE KILLED ME."
AND IT SHOWS THE RESILIENCE OF
THE PEOPLE HERE AND SENDS A
MESSAGE TO THE WHOLE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: WHO ARE THE
ASSYRIAN CHRISTIANS?
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE GROUP'S
HISTORY ON OUR WEB SITE.
VISIT www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: IT WAS A TOPSY
TURVY WEEK IN THE MARKETS, WITH
HUGE SWINGS IN THE CURRENCY
MARKETS AND, BY WEEK'S END,
ANOTHER SHARP RISE IN STOCK
PRICES.
THE DOW AND S&P 500 CLOSED
YESTERDAY JUST BELOW THEIR ALL-
TIME HIGHS.
FOR SOME INSIGHTS INTO THE
FORCES AT WORK, WE ARE JOINED BY
MICHAEL REGAN OF BLOOMBERG NEWS.
SO, FIRST OF ALL, THE COMMENTS
THAT WERE MADE BY THE FED,
EVERYBODY KIND OF THINKS ABOUT
INTEREST RATES, BUT SOMETHING
JANET YELLEN SAID ABOUT THE
PRICE OF THE DOLLAR SEEMED TO
HAVE A HUGE IMPACT.
WHY?
>> RIGHT, WELL, IT'S SORT OF
COUNTERINTUITIVE, BUT A STRONGER
CURRENCY IS NOT NECESSARILY THE
BEST THING FOR AN ECONOMY.
I'LL GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE.
IF YOU'RE AN AMERICAN COMPANY
SELLING BIG MACS OR iPHONES OR
WHATEVER IN EUROPE, UNLESS YOU
RAISE YOUR PRICES IN EURO TERMS,
YOU'LL COLLECT THE SAME AMOUNT
OF EUROS, BUT WHEN YOU TRANSLATE
IT BACK TO AMERICAN DOLLARS IT'S
MUCH LESS ON THE AMERICAN DOLLAR
SIDE.
SO, THAT CREATES HEADWIND FOR A
LOT OF COMPANIES THAT HAVE BIG
OVERSEAS BUSINESSES, WHICH IS
MANY AMERICAN COMPANIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, A LOT OF
THESE MULTINATIONAL
CORPORATIONS, THAT MEANS THEY'RE
NOT MAKING NEARLY AS MUCH PROFIT
OVERSEAS, RIGHT?
>> EXACTLY, EXACTLY.
SOME ARE ACTUALLY DOING BETTER
BECAUSE THE AMERICAN SPENDING
POWER IS STRONGER, SO IT'S SORT
OF A MIXED BAG.
BUT ON THE WHOLE, IT OFTENTIMES
TENDS TO BE A HEADWIND TO THE
ECONOMY AND TO THE STOCK MARKET.
>> Sreenivasan: OKAY, BESIDES
THESE HUGE CORPORATIONS, HOW
DOES IT IMPACT OUR BUYING POWER?
I GUESS, ON THE ONE HAND MAYBE
IT'S CHEAPER FOR ME TO TRAVEL IN
EUROPE RIGHT NOW, BUT IF THAT'S
NOT MY THING HOW AM I ACTUALLY
FEELING THE IMPACT?
>> WELL, FOR ONE THING, AS YOU
SAID, THIS IS A KEY ISSUE FOR
POLICY MAKERS TRYING TO DECIDE
THE FATE OF MONETARY POLICY.
SO, AT THE END OF LAST YEAR, THE
FED... THEIR PROJECTIONS FOR
WHERE THEIR INTEREST RATE, THE
FEDERAL RESERVE'S RATE WAS GOING
TO GO WAS ABOUT 1.1% BY THE END
OF THIS YEAR.
THEY'VE SINCE, IN THIS LAST
MEETING, CUT THAT BACK DOWN TO
0.6%.
YOU THINK HALF A PERCENTAGE
POINT, HOW BIG OF A DEAL IS
THAT?
ON WALL STREET, IT'S A HUGE
DEAL, AND POTENTIALLY A BIG DEAL
TO EVERYONE BECAUSE, OBVIOUSLY,
IF YOU... YOU KNOW, THOSE RATES
INFLUENCE EVERYTHING--
TREASURIES, AND TRICKLE ON DOWN
TO MORTGAGES AND ALL SORTS OF
COMMERCIAL LOANS.
SO, IF INVESTORS BELIEVE I'M NOT
GOING TO MAKE AS MUCH INVESTING
IN THE DEBT MARKET GOING
FORWARD, I MIGHT AS WELL TRY MY
LUCK IN THE STOCK MARKET.
THAT'S PART OF THE REASON WHY WE
SAW THIS BIG JUMP ON WEDNESDAY
AND FRIDAY IN THE STOCK MARKET
IS BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, THE RISK/
RETURN LOOKS A LITTLE BIT BETTER
IN THE STOCK MARKET COMPARED TO
POTENTIAL LOWER INTEREST RATES
IN THE DEBT MARKETS.
>> Sreenivasan: AND THIS IS AT
A TIME WHEN OUR CENTRAL BANK IS
GOING ONE WAY ON THE DOLLAR
VERSUS ALL THESE OTHER CENTRAL
BANKS.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY TRYING TO
SUPPRESS THEIR CURRENCY.
SO, WE ALMOST CAN'T STOP THE
POWER OF THE DOLLAR FROM GETTING
BIGGER.
>> RIGHT, AND IT'S REALLY SORT
OF UNCHARTED TERRITORY.
OBVIOUSLY, THE BOILERPLATE YOU
READ EVERYWHERE ON WALL STREET
IS "PAST PERFORMANCE DOES NOT
GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS,"
RIGHT?
BUT WHAT DOES WALL STREET DO?
THEY SPEND ALL THEIR TIME
ANNUALIZING THE PAST TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHAT IT'S GOING TO
MEAN FOR THE FUTURE.
IN THIS CASE, IT'S SO
UNPRECEDENTED WHAT WE'VE
SEEN, NOT ONLY THE FED LOWERING
INTEREST RATES THE AS LOW AS
THEY DID, BUYING TRILLIONS OF
DOLLARS WORTH OF BONDS.
AND NOW, THE OPPOSITE HAPPENING
WHERE WE'RE SORT OF BACKING AWAY
FROM THAT AND EUROPE IS DOING
WHAT WE DID A FEW YEARS AGO;
THEY'RE AGGRESSIVELY... THEY'RE
GOING TO BUY MORE THAN $1
TRILLION WORTH OF BONDS IN
EUROPE.
SO, IT'S TWO FORCES ACTING AT
ONCE TO STRENGTHEN THE DOLLAR,
AND IT'S VERY UNPRECEDENTED, AND
IT'S... IT HAS A LOT OF
PEOPLE... YOU KNOW, MAYBE NOT
WORRIED BUT VERY SORT OF
FLUMMOXED BECAUSE, AGAIN, THEY
LOOK BACK TO THESE MODELS BASED
ON THE PAST, AND THERE'S NO
HISTORICAL RECORD TO BASE ANY
PREDICTIONS ON.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
MICHAEL REGAN OF BLOOMBERG NEWS,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO THE
PASSING OF A REMARKABLE VETERAN.
LUCY COFFEY DIED EARLIER THIS
WEEK AT THE AGE OF 108.
SHE HAD BEEN THE OLDEST LIVING
FEMALE VETERAN.
THE INDIANA NATIVE WAS 37 YEARS
OLD WHEN, IN 1943, SHE ENLISTED
IN THE WOMEN'S AUXILIARY ARMY
CORPS, WHICH PERFORMED SUPPORT
TASKS FOR THE ARMY.
>> THESE WOMEN ARE TO TAKE OVER
THE JOBS OF SOLDIERS BEHIND THE
LINES AND HERE AT HOME.
>> Sreenivasan: COFFEY SERVED IN
THE PACIFIC THEATER, EARNING TWO
BRONZE STARS AND RISING TO THE
RANK OF SERGEANT BEFORE BEING
DISCHARGED IN 1945.
AFTER THE WAR, SHE DID CIVILIAN
WORK IN THE ARMY IN JAPAN AND
TEXAS FOR ANOTHER 26 YEARS.
LAST JULY, COFFEY TRAVELED TO
WASHINGTON, D.C., FROM HER HOME
IN SAN ANTONIO AND MET WITH BOTH
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
>> IT'S SO NICE TO MEET YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Sreenivasan: VICE PRESIDENT
BIDEN JOKED ABOUT BEING UPSTAGED
BY THE PRESIDENT.
>> I'M VICE PRESIDENT; THE
PRESIDENT COMES IN, AND
EVERYBODY DROPS EVERYTHING.
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
>> (LAUGHS)
>> Sreenivasan: COFFEY ALSO
VISITED THE WOMEN'S MEMORIAL AT
ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY AND
THE NATIONAL WORLD WAR II
MEMORIAL, WHERE SHE MET FELLOW
VETERAN AND FORMER SENATOR BOB
DOLE.
COFFEY WAS ONE OF ABOUT 400,000
WOMEN WHO SERVED IN UNIFORM
DURING WORLD WAR II.
THE JOBS THAT WOMEN HAVE BEEN
ALLOWED TO DO HAVE DRAMATICALLY
CHANGED SINCE THEN.
IN JANUARY OF 2013, THEN-
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE LEON
PANETTA FORMALLY LIFTED RULES
THAT EXCLUDED WOMEN FROM GROUND
COMBAT, A CHANGE THAT RECOGNIZED
THE DANGER THAT MANY WOMEN HAVE
FACED IN AFGHANISTAN AND IRAQ
SINCE 2001.
>> THEY'RE FIGHTING AND THEY'RE
DYING TOGETHER.
AND THE TIME HAS COME FOR OUR
POLICIES TO RECOGNIZE THAT
REALITY.
>> Sreenivasan: TODAY, WOMEN
REPRESENT ABOUT 9% OF LIVING
VETERANS.
BY THE MIDDLE OF THIS CENTURY,
THAT NUMBER IS EXPECTED TO
NEARLY DOUBLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME MORE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
AUTHORITIES SAY THE MAN WHO
ATTACKED SECURITY AGENTS AT NEW
ORLEANS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
LAST NIGHT WITH WASP SPRAY AND A
MACHETE ALSO WAS CARRYING
EXPLOSIVES, SIX MOLOTOV
COCKTAILS.
THE INCIDENT ENDED WHEN POLICE
SHOT AND WOUNDED HIM.
AND IF YOUR N.C.A.A. BASKETBALL
BRACKET HAS BEEN BUSTED, YOU ARE
NOT ALONE.
YOU HAVE COMPANY.
ESPN SAYS MORE THAN 11 MILLION
SPORTS FANS SIGNED UP FOR ITS
TOURNAMENT CHALLENGE, AND, GOING
INTO DAY THREE OF PLAY TODAY,
ONLY ONE PERSON WAS STILL
PERFECT IN THEIR PREDICTIONS.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.